# Reading 5 (Ethics)

### Response
Part of past experiences might be chosen subconsciously to forget by people with time passing by, yet it doesn’t apply to data — it is rarely forgotten by the internet. In the podcast Right to be forgotten, one of the debatable questions lies in the legitimacy of keeping criminal records open to the public. From my perspective, such records should not be easily publicized, especially with their detailed personal information including families and friends. Any form of unofficial depicts or exposures takes in some sort of subjectivities, therefore easily leading to bias and misunderstanding — by official, the only case I could think of so far is the court records, which is acceptable to serve as their public data, yet whether to expose the personal information of both criminals and victims ought to be processed and evaluated case by case — let alone I was questioning: What can be defined as public records/data? Who makes these data accordingly and who are the audiences?

The podcast reminds me of the documentary [The Cleaners](https://www-filmplatform-net.proxy.library.nyu.edu/product/the-cleaners/) I’ve watched in another class, which targets Facebook as the world-leading social media platform and the labor it employs to “clean data” behind. Though it looks at a different stage dealing with data, similar ethical problems fall into the criteria of what is considered as clean and what requires to be deleted/harmful, the legitimacy of hiring human labor to undertake the negative contents, etc. And although the data doesn’t specifically point to criminal records, problems in oversight boards and, in a broader sense, the attribution of such responsibility has already been revealed in this documentary to arouse critical judgments: How to monitor those enterprises? Even, who is qualified to monitor?

With data prospering towards the emerging raw materials, various problems arise between data and humans, between algorithms and values, between efficiency and ethics. It then becomes rather difficult to trade-off and strike balance given the current various standpoints, not to mention huge potentials in machines are foreseeable to further realize without proper consideration on ethics. Artificial Intelligence such as ClearView is argued to conduct information collection and evaluation, which seems to be efficient to facilitate social credit system, yet huge risks are also apparent in terms of false recognitions and the according series of misjudgments. In all, so far I’m not able to come up with any “proper” ideas on either generating public data or processing/conducting supervision; what I can see as public says is the imbalance in almost all existing systems, therefore remaining careful evaluations in any sense.
